---
layout: post #Do not change.
category: [programming, c, cpp] #One, more categories or no at all.
title: "Setting up Shop" #Article title.
author: cel #Author's nick.
#nextPart: _posts/2021-01-30-example.md #Next part.
#prevPart: _posts/2021-01-30-example.md #Previous part.
#og_image: assets/example.png #Open Graph preview image.
#og_description: "Example description." #Open Graph description.
#fb_app_id: example
---
## What I've done for the day.

Installed WSL environment which is critical to run GCC C++ compiler and GDB debugger. 
Now if you press me on why, I am going to panic and give a bad answer. But I would reckon that getting familiar with Linux and cross platform development has to do a lot.

I used to run a VMWare/Docker or Raspberry Pi to run linux before but never really got to the point where I prefer one over the other.
It was recommended to me by a good friend and a much better C programmer, so I took that word and ran with it.

Also installed Xilinx Vitis environment which just took time more than anything.
Right now, my PYNQ-Z2 is in shipment due tomorrow, so most of the work to configure and make that tool run will be done then but its nice to get the lengthy part done faster.

## What I've read for the day.

Mostly basic things such as the manual for the board, some basic documentation on getting WSL, GCC/GDB integrated into VS Code(my prefered IDE), and useful info on learning Verilog/FPGA.

One notable thing I have started is a very nice PhD thesis on FPGA accelerator development as a doctorate candidate and his experiences called Application of FPGA to Real-Time Machine Learning.

I am mostly taking it as a personal interest piece, but it seems to be a great look into a high level development and experimentation as a memoir of sorts, and hope to take some knowledge from it.

## What I plan to do tommorow.

If my FPGA setup arrives tomorrow, I hope to start my way into Vivado, following a great tutorial by Matbi. If not, most of my time tomorrow will be for setting up more production details such as resources I can reach and reading materials for the hardware side.

For the programming side, tommorow will be my first official day into Verilog HDL. My guide will be mostly the interweb and a great source [nandgame](http://nandgame.com/) and [asic-world](http://www.asic-world.com/verilog/verilog_one_day.html). 
Expecting to be stuck at some point and start digging into the C/C++ environment soon to resolve some issues and to dust off my C++ knowledge.

For tools, Vivado is the only thing on the table at this moment, Cadence has been hard to get my hands on and I reckon its super technical and something I need to learn first with [IDEC](https://www.idec.or.kr/).

## What I plan to do in this month.

This would typically be at the 1st day of the month, but I am going to break it first before I make it a habit.

My current plan is to submit something into [23rd Korean Semiconductor Design Competition](https://systemiclab.or.kr/DocView.html?menu_seq=23&bbs_seq=1108&offset=0&mode=view) due August 5th.
My expectation isn't high, since I am also taking TOEIC and OPIc tests in july and while it isn't a major obstacle, I still need to dedicate a couple of days to get myself into peak condition.
However, the goal isn't to win the grand prize or even to make something worthy of anything(while that would be awesome), it's to create something. 

A working, unique idea, I personally implemented into a FPGA.

Most of my studies have resulted in something good but not something great or tangible, mostly because the lack of motivation toward the end and me getting sidetracked into something else, and that has been a problem I needed to tackle for a long time.
Especially now that I decided this is something worth chasing with stakes on me to perform, now is the time to buckle up, set a goal, and use everything I've learned in my 2.5 years of novice ~ enthusiast interest in surrounding topics and bloom into a semi-competent engineer thats worth their salt.

Hopefully, this new endeavour of blogging(?) will be the motivation I need to push that extra mile and poop out something that works in a real environment, and hopefully you'll read along for the ride.

## Final thoughts for the day.

It was fine. It wasn't great, it wasn't tough, like anything you are just starting. A lot of anxiety and stress, but thats expected and something I can endure and overcome.